---
layout: post
mathjax: true
description: ""
category: "生信"
tags: ["nextflow"]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

## why nextflow
 
- [Design considerations for workflow management systems use in production genomics research and the clinic](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-021-99288-8)
> Scientific Workflow Management Systems (WfMSs) automate computational analyses by stringing together individual data processing tasks into cohesive pipelines. They abstract away the issues of orchestrating data movement and processing, managing task dependencies, and allocating resources within the compute infrastructure9. Additionally, some WfMSs provide mechanisms to track data provenance, execution errors, user authentication, and data security. 

- [Two years with Nextflow](https://labs.epi2me.io/two-years-of-nextflow/#discussion)

Nextflow migrate from Sockeye(python package with snakemake) to nextflow.


Pros:

- explicit data flow: tasks are stitched together by the developer in a clear manner without relying on implicit matching of filepaths (as with make-like systems),

- decoupling of filenames: relatedly, tasks are isolated from each other and communication of data is decoupled from the naming of files,

- online analysis: unlike many workflow managers within the informatics space Nextflow is not limited to batch compute on static inputs. It borrows some ideas from modern, continuous systems to provide a reactive system,

- excellent support for a multitude of compute engines: to a large extent Nextflow has made distributed compute a solved problem, including support for a variety of software distribution mechanisms.

Besides,

- Better documentation comparing to snakemake.
- nf-core: a curated set of analysis pipelines and various tools to help you create a new pipeline.

Cons:
- Debug is a pain.
- Support for sun grid engine(SGE) is not that good.


## 